To demonstrate this,
I'm gonna build a simple, naïve,
Firebase site, and
I'm gonna make tons of mistakes.
So this is not the best practice section,
this is the,
let's learn from the mistake section.
So if you wanna follow along, you can,
I'm gonna be going pretty fast,
so, you can just kinda can watch me,
go through it too.
But this is in
the 1-fast-but-not-good-setup.
And from there, if you have npm install,
and npm run dev, it'll boot up a Vue.js
app, and if you're not used to Vue,
don't worry, it's actually pretty simple.
So, I'm at the root of this directory,
and I'm gonna say,
cd 1-fast-but-not-good-setup, and then
go to start, and then open up my code.
All right.
So the way this app works is that
everything starts in main, just to kinda
show how it works, we have a router,
this is not related to the Firebase code.
But just kinda acclimate
everyone to the code base router,
it goes to a home component,
a dashboard component, and
then editor, we're gonna be making
a real-time Markdown editor.
And if I go and run,
I have my node modules installed,
so I am just going to do npm run dev.
And that's gonna boot me up on localhost:
3000 by default,
which I think I need to go.
Google's 2000 right here and this is just
this beautiful page, as you can see.
Zoom in we're going to
sign into user right now.
None of that's happening
just clicking through it and
then it's going to show a list of
Markdown documents which none exists.
And then when we click New we'll be able
to write mark down on one side and and
it will all show up in real time because
right now I'll just lose any changes
So going to, I'm going to start,
let's start with the fun spot.
Like what I really want to do is I
want to synchronize data in real time
to the editor.
So the first thing if I want to
connect out to a Firebase project,
or data to Firebase back end,
I need to create In project in
the Firebase console and so
the way with that is if you go to
console.firebase.google.com this
will sign you in with a.
If you're with a Google account and then
this is my project, but this is the Front
of Masters projects I'm making but
I'll go and make one from scratch.
Now I'm gonna ask the audience
participation what's a good name In no
numbers less less it's got a good rate
of like because there's going to be
a point behind this too so like think
about this as like this is a Markdown
editor like what what would you want to
type into it Were URL to go to a web app.
Like markdown me.
Like, markdown dash me.
I don't know I kind of
like is that we get there?
>> Yes.
Good.
>> Okay.
All right.
So you can enable enable Google Analytics.
I'm not going to use that for now.
So I'm just gonna go through and
create the project.
So there's the jam stack
like can you maybe talk
about how that's related or
>> yeah Firebase and
the jam stack go very well together so
with jam stack you have you JavaScript,
and Markdown work.
I can't remember what it is.
There's so many acronyms, but
with JAMstack the philosophy is I
have all these static documents, and
I can render things out as statically
as possible, but where needed,
I can talk to some back end service Us and
from that backend service,
render you know whatever or
do it make a payment to do all this stuff.
Firebase works really well because
JAMstack works great with serverless
architecture and Firebase is
all serverless So jam stack and
Firebase go very well together.
You know, regardless of what you're
choosing to deploy on or whatever,
you can store data in your, in FireStore.
You can authenticate users
to Firebase authentication.
And it's it's very jammy.
I don't know if that's what they
say the jam stack world, but
I'd like to think that's what they say.
So now I have my project created And
the first thing you wanna do is
you want to create a Firebase app.
So Firebase projects they house all
of this stuff don't worry too much
about it these are all the things that
we gonna be using in the console.
But to talk to these,
>> Services we need to create an app.
And so app it doesn't matter
much what you name your app,
I call all my apps defaults because
I really only use the first one.
And then I just click Register.
And this is going to
give me a very important
object called the firebase config.
Now, this configuration object right
here It can be a little scary for
people at first, especially because
they see this thing called API key.
So we're gonna put this in
our client side application.
And it's gonna be just fun.
The amount of times I have answered
Stack Overflow questions or
let people know these are not
the security keys are not the problems.
This is all Client side keys
these are all publishable.
This is, basically, just how Firebase
knows how to speak to your specific
back end if you're worried about well
what happens with all my data how.
Hey, how do I secure that?
We have a whole section today devoted
to how we're going to keep everything
really secure.
And this is not a problem.
So we're gonna copy all
of this right here.
And going back into an app,
I'm going to create a new file.
And I'm just actually I have
a flower here config And
right here it says Export
consequence config and
I'm just going to paste in all of that so
now I have my config in here and
I can start connecting out to Firebase so
I'm gonna go into the editor dot
view because I want to I want to make
this a In real time so the way this works
is it just uses some some of us like
lifecycle and reactive methods and
it's used as its router so I know what
route I'm on and then I use this library
called snark down which is like
a super lightweight Markdown editor.
And I just do a little bit
of like enhancing on it.
So, just some customization.
But now I'm gonna import, from Firebase.
If this already comes pre baked with all
Firebase installed, but normally what you
would do is, you would Here in the editor
you would just do, I was really far off,
but you would do npm i firebase,
and that's it, it's really tiny.
So I'm going to kinda just show right
here, you would just npm i firebase,
npm install if you wanna
write the whole thing out.
But that installs
Firebase JavaScript library, and
the JavaScript library is how
we're gonna talk to everything.
So the first thing we're gonna
do is we're going to initialise
a firebase application.
So it knows how to speak to the back end.
So using that,
I also want to import my config../config.
There we go.
And that has a config object.
And then from here,
I can create a firebase app.
So initializeApp and
then I'm going to pass in config.firebase.
So this right here,
it sets up the foundation for
being able to talk to apps, but
we're not actually talking to anything.
So what I want to do is I want to be able
to say, hey, I want to go on to FireStore.
And I want to synchronize data.
>> Well here in the console.
If I open up and I click FireStore
database, the first thing
I'm going to need to do when you set this
up is you want to provision this out.
So this is kind of a lot
of steps at first, but
we still automatically provision
your database for you.
But what we found is is that it's
probably best to not create resources.
That you don't need at first,
this is more so for security.
And then we also kind of prompt you.
This is sort of a taste
into security roles.
We're going to start in test mode,
which is not good to do long term.
Basically, all this is saying is,
is that anyone can read and
write to this database until,
By this date right here, so June 30th.
Then you can select where you want your
database to be, I'm going to have mine
be in US Central, and that's going to go
out and create a cloud FireStore database.
And then when I start writing to it,
we'll see all the updates appear and
everything that's gonna go out you.
>> Great and so this is where I could
create data I could start writing in,
we'll have something like markdowns
would be the name of a collection and
then the document ID I can click an auto
ID And then you would have markdown
it'd be like hello something like that and
then when I save it,
we have ourselves a little document
right here so this is sort of your basic
structure we're gonna get way more into
this This in the upcoming section.
And so what I'm gonna do now is I
wanna connect out to fire store.
So I'm going to import a subpage
from the fire base library.
So the way that everything works within
fire base, if you, everything has to use
app because the app will share
authentication state across all services.
>> But first but any other sub package
you're using, so whether it be off or
FireStore or remote config or you know
a bunch of other things that I'm can't
remember off the top my head right now,
they all contain in these sub packages.
And each sub package will have
a getter method that says, hey,
let me get that service.
And then from there we'll have access
to FireStore called Get FireStore.
And optionally, if you want you can
pass in the Firebase app because then it
knows what app it's associated with
behind the scenes if you don't pass it
in it will still figure it out I like
to pass it in just to be explicit And
then if I want to grab data, I'm gonna
start by calling this collection method.
And what this will do is I can
say all right, let's go out to
the markdowns collection and
let's see what exists there.
So this right here is
referred to as a reference.
It doesn't actually get any data
unless we do something with it,
but it refers to a location
in the database.
So right here, this refers to this
collection of markdowns, and it would
be able to reach out to this document and
be able to show me everything.
I got a little error right there.
>> But basically this would say like, hey,
this is this is how you get
to a spot in the database.
And if I want to read
the spot in real time,
I can use this method called on snapshot.
And on snapshot receives
a collection reference and
then every single time any update happens
whether that's a delete An update, right?
It will trigger a callback that
gives you the new data automatically
that can surface to the app.
Yes, Mark.
>> Is the initialized app config different
in a SSR library, such as Next.js?
>> So the Firebase SDK.
Has ability to like handle
like Node environments up to
a certain point certain features are not
notable because they rely on browser.
We do our best to know up in those
cases there's some edge cases I believe
specifically with next where you might
need to write like an if statement around
stuff but we have a current project we're
working on trying to make that a lot
easier so hopefully by the time that this
is all cut up and everything yes it will
work very good with next if not just
If statement here are there for
things that rely on browser
API's Great question though and
there's also a server library that you
can swap Firebase out for as well but
that has different implications and
we'll get to that here in an upcoming one.